=Java Prettify=

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

==Overview==
This is a syntax highlighter written in Java ([http://java-prettify.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javadoc/index.html JavaDoc]). It is ported from JavaScript [http://code.google.com/p/google-code-prettify/ Prettify], the current version ported is 1-Jun-2011. If you need an editor more than a highlighter, please find [http://code.google.com/p/jsyntaxpane/ jsyntaxpane]. You may wondoer why I will port this to Java, it is because I need it for [http://code.google.com/p/language-files-tool/ Language Files Tool].

==Alternatives==
[http://code.google.com/p/java-syntax-highlighter/ Java SyntaxHighlighter]

==Requirement==
Java SE 6 or up

==Language Supported==
The comments in [http://java-prettify.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javadoc/prettify/Prettify.html prettify.Prettify] are authoritative but the lexer should work on a number of languages including C and friends, Java, Python, Bash, SQL, HTML, XML, CSS, Javascript, and Makefiles. It works passably on Ruby, PHP, VB, and Awk and a decent subset of Perl and Ruby, but, because of commenting conventions, doesn't work on Smalltalk, or CAML-like languages.

LISPy languages are supported via an extension: [http://java-prettify.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/javadoc/prettify/lang/LangLisp.html prettify.lang.LangLisp].

And similarly for Clojure, CSS, Go, Haskell, Lua, OCAML, SML, F#, Nemerle, Protocol Buffers, Scala, SQL, TeX, LaTeX, VHDL, Visual Basic, WikiText, XQuery, and YAML.

If you'd like to add an extension for your favorite language, please look at [http://code.google.com/p/java-prettify/source/browse/trunk/src/prettify/lang/LangLisp.java prettify.lang.LangLisp] and file an [http://code.google.com/p/google-code-prettify/issues/list issue] including your language extension, and a testcase.

Adapted from: http://google-code-prettify.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/README.html

==Themes==
Default, Desert, Sons of Obsidian, Sunburst

[http://code.google.com/p/java-prettify/wiki/ThemesDemo Click here to visit the gallery.]

==Configurations==
 * Allows you to change the first (starting) line number.
 * Allows you to turn gutter with line numbers on and off.
 * Allows you to highlight one or more lines to focus user's attention.
[http://code.google.com/p/java-prettify/wiki/ConfigurationsDemo Click here for a demo.]

==Example==
<b><font color=red>Note that this highlighter extends Swing component, so all operations are better be executed inside [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event_dispatching_thread Swing dispatching thread].</font></b>
{{{
import java.io.*;
import java.util.Arrays;
import java.util.logging.*;
import javax.swing.*;
import prettify.SyntaxHighlighter;
import prettify.theme.ThemeDefault;

public class Example {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SwingUtilities.invokeLater(new Runnable() {

            @Override
            public void run() {
                try {
                    SyntaxHighlighter highlighter = new SyntaxHighlighter(new ThemeDefault());
                    highlighter.setContent(new File("src/prettify/example/example.html"));
                    highlighter.setFirstLine(10);
                    highlighter.setHighlightedLineList(Arrays.asList(10, 13));

                    JFrame frame = new JFrame();
                    frame.setDefaultCloseOperation(JFrame.EXIT_ON_CLOSE);
                    frame.setContentPane(highlighter);
                    frame.pack();
                    frame.setLocationByPlatform(true);
                    frame.setVisible(true);
                } catch (Exception ex) {
                    Logger.getLogger(Example.class.getName()).log(Level.SEVERE, null, ex);
                }
            }
        });
    }
}
}}}

==Known Issues==
 * Perl formatting is really crappy. Partly because Perl is [http://www.perlmonks.org/?node_id=663393 hard] to parse.

Adapted from: http://google-code-prettify.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/CHANGES.html